>> Scott Moss: Any questions on this?
>> Speaker 2: So
this is the production-wise,
that's how it's been-
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
you can take this right now,
build your app,
go to Silicon Valley, raise 100 million.
Tell them you got this note taking app,
but, no, seriously,
this is a really good foundation
to creating a production app.
Yeah, I mean, it's just one file and
it's not really doing anything.
But you'll be surprised how similar
production code looks to this.
There's this more business logic, right,
around like I said, authentication and
stuff like that.
When you get down to business,
it's a route that's hitting a database and
then returning the result, right,
and the difficulty is gonna depend on,
how did you model your data?
Did you model your data in such a way
that you have to make multiple queries?
How did you do that?
So that's difficult these
queries are gonna be.
So yeah, at the end of the day,
this is it.
This is why I like Node, because you got
this little thing that's running, but
it's powering so much.
>> Speaker 2: So Node is always running?
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, I opened up a port,
I opened up a socket.
I'm on 5000.
It's just running until it crashes.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
right, yeah, so
if you compare this to Apache,
man, Apache,
I've used Apache before [LAUGH] yeah.
>> Speaker 2: I'm just saying,
this looks simpler.
>> Scott Moss: It's way
simpler than Apache.
Apache is way more low level, right.
Express takes care of, you don't have to
worry about connecting to the socket,
open it yourself and
chunking the data and all that stuff.
It just takes care of it for
you because it's event based.
So yeah, it's a little more high level,
but at the end of the day,
it kinda does the same thing, yeah.
You got a question?
>> Speaker 3: Yes,
I think you just answered it.
So I was wondering if you just open
the connection and not close it,
you might get socket exception later.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, you don't-
>> Speaker 3: Like
after a couple of hundred requests.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
you want get that here.
[LAUGH] I know what you are talking about.
I ran into that so many times.
Yeah.
>> Speaker 2: How do you
prevent the server from dying,
you have means to handle everything,
but in the real life,
it's-
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
so if you wanna know more
about that in detail,
the course I taught yesterday
talks a little more about that.
But the API course that I
taught talks about that a lot.
But in short,
if you don't want the server to die,
then you just gotta catch your errors,
all right?
Cuz I have throw an error in here,
the whole process is gonna crash, and
the server crashes.
And then you gotta figure out,
did I want this error to cause a crash?
Or did I not want this
error to cause a crash?
If you are not authenticated and
that caused an error to my server,
I don't want that to cause a crash, it's
you're fault you're not authenticated.
>> Speaker 2: You may have
external tools to be,
like I'm thinking of doing something to,
double-checking that there's something
is still running or I don't know.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah, so like a health
check service or something like that.
Yeah, you can register a help check route.
At the end of the day, you just
gotta be wary of what's coming in.
Just like any other server, you just need
to prevent the errors from happening but
most of the time,
you'll put something in front of this.
So like if you did that you do like engine
x for reverse proxy or sometimes a caching
layer or a CDN, but most times
there's something in front of it.
So this thing is just focused on data,
which is Jason.
At that point, if it's just Jason, you can
kinda have full control over it, yeah.
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE] other things,
but I don't know if it's all related,
I'm just wondering, [INAUDIBLE] back and
front end, I mean you can reuse
the same things on the front-
>> Scott Moss: There you go, yeah,
you can.
So if you ever built an app that was
like isomorphic or universal, yeah,
you were using the same code.
Like you were literally-
>> Speaker 2: Well those are things you
could use on the front, yeah.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
you can use it on the front end,
I mean you couldn't make an express
server on the front end, but
a lot of this code,
you could use on the front end.
I mean technically,
you could use Mongoose on her front.
And actually they have examples
of how you can do it, Adam.
Yeah, I know, right.
Some people find theirself in the position
of where they're like type checking data
on the front end and they love the schemas
of Mongoose that they use that for
validations.
>> Speaker 2: Because exactly,
the evaluations, it would be so
nice to be able to have it back and
front, the same.
>> Scott Moss: Yeah,
I've seen people do it.
If you ever heard something called Meteor,
that's literally what that does.
So yeah.
You had a question, Mark?
>> Speaker 4: I was just gonna comment,
PWAs and offline.
If you're gonna save all your notes
offline in a service order or something,
and then when you connect, then you can
cut off the data to the API or whatever.
A lot of people will do that,
so they'll mock.
>> Scott Moss: Exactly.
So he's talking about
progressive web apps,
which are like the new mobile apps,
offline storage and all that stuff.
So there's some advance techniques there,
where you will use a lot of that,
a lot of those techniques on the front
end than you would on the back end for
syncing the server and the data.
So yeah, it all is just JavaScript.
But the thing about is Node itself has
things that you can't do in the browser,
that you can do-
>> Speaker 4: Yeah,
I'm talking mostly about the models, and
[INAUDIBLE]-
>> Scott Moss: Yep,
you can do a lot of that if you want to.